Copyright 2023 Karl Otness, Donsub Rim

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
   documentation and/or other materials provided with the
   distribution.

3. Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its
   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
   from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Additional conditions for this Windows binary build

This program is linked with and uses Microsoft Distributable Code,
copyrighted by the Microsoft Corporation. The Microsoft Distributable
Code is included in each .pyd file as a result of running the code
through a linker.

These components come from Microsoft developer tools such as Microsoft
Visual C++ and the Windows Software Development Kit. In order to use
or further distribute this program, you, any distributors, and other
end users must agree to terms that protect the Microsoft Distributable
Code at least as much as Microsoft's own requirements for the
Distributable Code. See Microsoft's documentation (included in its
developer tools and on its website at microsoft.com) for specific
details.

Among the restrictions required for compliance with this agreement are
requirements that you, distributors, and other end users do not:

- alter any copyright, trademark, or patent notice in Microsoft's
  Distributable Code

- use Microsoft's trademarks in your programs' names or in a way that
  suggests your programs come from or are endorsed by Microsoft

- distribute Microsoft's Distributable Code to run on a platform other
  than Microsoft operating systems, run-time technologies or
  application platforms

- include Microsoft Distributable Code in malicious, deceptive, or
  unlawful programs

The above restrictions on use and distribution apply only to the
Microsoft Distributable Code, and you must accept them in order to
make use of this Windows binary build. The distribution of the rest of
this software package is governed by the 3-clause BSD license included
in this file and in other files as marked.
