LICENSE
MANIFEST.in
README.md
__init__.py
pic.py
setup.py
version.py
gui/all/jumping.gif
locale/ca-es/MiscBlacklist.voc
locale/ca-es/More.voc
locale/ca-es/Weather.voc
locale/ca-es/no entry found.dialog
locale/ca-es/searching.dialog
locale/ca-es/skill.json
locale/ca-es/thats all.dialog
locale/ca-es/wiki.intent
locale/ca-es/wikiroulette.dialog
locale/ca-es/wikiroulette.intent
locale/da-dk/MiscBlacklist.voc
locale/da-dk/More.voc
locale/da-dk/Weather.voc
locale/da-dk/no entry found.dialog
locale/da-dk/searching.dialog
locale/da-dk/skill.json
locale/da-dk/thats all.dialog
locale/da-dk/wiki.intent
locale/da-dk/wikiroulette.dialog
locale/da-dk/wikiroulette.intent
locale/de-de/More.voc
locale/de-de/Weather.voc
locale/de-de/no entry found.dialog
locale/de-de/searching.dialog
locale/de-de/skill.json
locale/de-de/thats all.dialog
locale/de-de/wiki.intent
locale/de-de/wikiroulette.dialog
locale/de-de/wikiroulette.intent
locale/en-us/MiscBlacklist.voc
locale/en-us/More.voc
locale/en-us/Weather.voc
locale/en-us/no entry found.dialog
locale/en-us/searching.dialog
locale/en-us/skill.json
locale/en-us/thats all.dialog
locale/en-us/wiki.intent
locale/en-us/wikiroulette.dialog
locale/en-us/wikiroulette.intent
locale/es-es/More.voc
locale/es-es/Weather.voc
locale/es-es/no entry found.dialog
locale/es-es/searching.dialog
locale/es-es/skill.json
locale/es-es/thats all.dialog
locale/es-es/wiki.intent
locale/es-es/wikiroulette.dialog
locale/es-es/wikiroulette.intent
locale/eu/More.voc
locale/eu/Weather.voc
locale/eu/no entry found.dialog
locale/eu/searching.dialog
locale/eu/thats all.dialog
locale/eu/wiki.intent
locale/eu/wikiroulette.dialog
locale/eu/wikiroulette.intent
locale/fr-fr/More.voc
locale/fr-fr/Weather.voc
locale/fr-fr/no entry found.dialog
locale/fr-fr/searching.dialog
locale/fr-fr/thats all.dialog
locale/fr-fr/wiki.intent
locale/fr-fr/wikiroulette.dialog
locale/fr-fr/wikiroulette.intent
locale/gl-es/MiscBlacklist.voc
locale/gl-es/More.voc
locale/gl-es/Weather.voc
locale/gl-es/no entry found.dialog
locale/gl-es/searching.dialog
locale/gl-es/skill.json
locale/gl-es/thats all.dialog
locale/gl-es/wiki.intent
locale/gl-es/wikiroulette.dialog
locale/gl-es/wikiroulette.intent
locale/it-it/More.voc
locale/it-it/Weather.voc
locale/it-it/no entry found.dialog
locale/it-it/searching.dialog
locale/it-it/thats all.dialog
locale/it-it/wiki.intent
locale/it-it/wikiroulette.dialog
locale/it-it/wikiroulette.intent
locale/nl-nl/More.voc
locale/nl-nl/Weather.voc
locale/nl-nl/no entry found.dialog
locale/nl-nl/searching.dialog
locale/nl-nl/thats all.dialog
locale/nl-nl/wiki.intent
locale/nl-nl/wikiroulette.dialog
locale/nl-nl/wikiroulette.intent
locale/pl-pl/no entry found.dialog
locale/pl-pl/searching.dialog
locale/pl-pl/thats all.dialog
locale/pl-pl/wikiroulette.dialog
locale/pt-pt/More.voc
locale/pt-pt/Weather.voc
locale/pt-pt/no entry found.dialog
locale/pt-pt/searching.dialog
locale/pt-pt/thats all.dialog
locale/pt-pt/wiki.intent
locale/pt-pt/wikiroulette.dialog
locale/pt-pt/wikiroulette.intent
locale/ru-ru/More.voc
locale/ru-ru/no entry found.dialog
locale/ru-ru/searching.dialog
locale/ru-ru/thats all.dialog
locale/ru-ru/wiki.intent
locale/ru-ru/wikiroulette.dialog
locale/ru-ru/wikiroulette.intent
ovos_skill_wikipedia.egg-info/PKG-INFO
ovos_skill_wikipedia.egg-info/SOURCES.txt
ovos_skill_wikipedia.egg-info/dependency_links.txt
ovos_skill_wikipedia.egg-info/entry_points.txt
ovos_skill_wikipedia.egg-info/requires.txt
ovos_skill_wikipedia.egg-info/top_level.txt
res/icon/wikipedia.png